feat: Azure DevOps Service OAuth2 (#2560)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/end-user-guide/pages/using-a-git-provider-access-token.adoc

[id="using-a-git-provider-access-token"]
= Using a Git-provider access token

OAuth for GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket needs to be xref:administration-guide:configuring-oauth-for-git-providers.adoc[configured by the administrator] of your organization's {prod-short} instance. If your administrator could not configure it for {prod-short} users, the workaround is for you to apply your personal access token as a {kubernetes} Secret.

Mounting your access token as a Secret enables the {prod-short} Server to access the remote repository that is cloned during workspace creation, including access to the repository's `/.che` and `/.vscode` folders.

Apply the Secret in your user {orch-namespace} of the {orch-name} cluster of your organization's {prod-short} instance.

> After applying the Secret, you can create new workspaces from a private Git repository that is hosted on GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, or Microsoft Azure Repos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pass:[<!-- vale RedHat.Spelling = NO -->]

After applying the Secret, you can create new workspaces with clones of a private Git repository that is hosted on GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, or Microsoft Azure Repos.

pass:[<!-- vale RedHat.Spelling = YES -->]
```

[id="using-a-git-provider-access-token"]
= Using a Git-provider access token

> OAuth for GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket needs to be xref:administration-guide:configuring-oauth-for-git-providers.adoc[configured by the administrator] of your organization's {prod-short} instance. If your administrator could not configure it for {prod-short} users, the workaround is for you to apply your personal access token as a {kubernetes} Secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pass:[<!-- vale RedHat.Spelling = NO -->]

OAuth for GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, or Microsoft Azure Repos needs to be xref:administration-guide:configuring-oauth-for-git-providers.adoc[configured by the administrator] of your organization's {prod-short} instance. If your administrator could not configure it for {prod-short} users, the workaround is for you to apply your personal access token as a {kubernetes} Secret.

pass:[<!-- vale RedHat.Spelling = YES -->]
```

Mounting your access token as a Secret enables the {prod-short} Server to access the remote repository that is cloned during workspace creation, including access to the repository's `/.che` and `/.vscode` folders.

Apply the Secret in your user {orch-namespace} of the {orch-name} cluster of your organization's {prod-short} instance.

pass:[<!-- vale RedHat.Spelling = NO -->]

> After applying the Secret, you can create workspaces with clones of a private Git repository that is hosted on GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, or Microsoft Azure Repos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After applying the Secret, you can create workspaces with clones of private Git repositories that are hosted on GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, or Microsoft Azure Repos.
```

> After applying the Secret, you can create workspaces with clones of private Git repositories that are hosted on GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, or Microsoft Azure Repos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After applying the Secret, you can create workspaces with clones of private Git repositories that are hosted on GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket Server, or Microsoft Azure Repos.
```

> After applying the Secret, you can create new workspaces with clones of a private Git repository that is hosted on GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, or Microsoft Azure Repos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After applying the Secret, you can create workspaces with clones of a private Git repository that is hosted on GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, or Microsoft Azure Repos.
```

    che.eclipse.org/scm-url: __<git_provider_endpoint>__# <3>

>     che.eclipse.org/scm-userid: '__<git_provider_user_id>__'# <4>

Author: @max-cx 
Here is a command how to get a `scm-userid`:
`curl -s -u  :<PAT> https://vssps.dev.azure.com/<ORGANIZATION>/_apis/connectionData\?api-version\=7.0-preview.1 | jq -r '.authenticatedUser.id'`
But I don't know how to incorporate it the doc since every git provider has a different way to find out the `scm-userid`

Reviewer: Thank you. Let me have a look.

Reviewer: I've opened a Jira issue, [RHDEVDOCS-5028](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHDEVDOCS-5028), as part of which the docs team will document this. I suggest we skip this content in this PR and just get it merged.

    che.eclipse.org/scm-url: __<git_provider_endpoint>__# <3>
    che.eclipse.org/scm-userid: '__<git_provider_user_id>__'# <4>
    che.eclipse.org/scm-username: __<git_provider_username>__
    che.eclipse.org/scm-organization: __<git_provider_organization>__# <5>
data:
  token: __<Base64_encoded_access_token>__
type: Opaque
----
+
<1> Your {prod-short} user ID.

> <2> The Git provider name: `github` or `gitlab`, `bitbucket-server` or `azure-devops`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> The Git provider name: `github` or `gitlab` or `bitbucket-server` or `azure-devops`.
```

<3> The Git provider URL.
<4> Your Git provider user ID.

> <5> Your Git provider user organization only for `azure-devops` Git provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<5> Only applicable to `azure-devops`: your Git provider user organization.
```

    che.eclipse.org/scm-url: __<git_provider_endpoint>__# <3>
    che.eclipse.org/scm-userid: '__<git_provider_user_id>__'# <4>
    che.eclipse.org/scm-username: __<git_provider_username>__
    che.eclipse.org/scm-organization: __<git_provider_organization>__# <5>
data:
  token: __<Base64_encoded_access_token>__
type: Opaque
----
+
<1> Your {prod-short} user ID.
<2> The Git provider name: `github` or `gitlab` or `bitbucket-server` or `azure-devops`.
<3> The Git provider URL.
<4> Your Git provider user ID.

> <5> Only applicable to `azure-devops`: your Git provider user organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<5> This line is only applicable to `azure-devops`: your Git provider user organization.
```
